all right we're rolling thanks for doing
this appreciate it yeah it's an honor to
be here my pleasure
honor to talk to you I really in first
of all I've really enjoyed you on Cafaro
casts shout-out to my friend Herron
Snider
I listened you on that show and I was
like god damn what an interesting guy
what a fucking crazy life you've had we
should so you were on that show alone
right and explain that show for people
don't know what the fuck it is yeah so
it's a it's a show where they get ten
people you each for those people get to
pick out ten basic items you know like
an axe and a bow and a saw and you know
ten item just ten items right does that
include arrows like you can only yeah
you don't know your boat comes with nine
arrows so your bow and arrows yeah I
guess it's an item that's a loosely ten
items and then you uh basically take ten
people fly them out into the middle of
nowhere and drop them each off by
themselves you got all the video camera
equipment and it's just self filming and
it's basically the last one to give up
wins so Wow and how how do you know if
anyone's given up before you you don't
you just they're out there you could be
like previously the show's been up it's
up to a year you know hypothetically
years yeah so you just go out there and
do your best and what if you are still
out there but everybody else is quit and
you don't know that's when they come and
tell you this one yeah yeah so when you
won they did that to you they tried all
right and how long did it take you
77,000 seven days Wow
completely surprised I thought I would
go maybe twice yeah yeah but let's give
people your background like it's kind of
unfair in a way and Aaron brought this
up on the broadcast that you were on
this show with a bunch of people like me
like regular folks that have never
really lived like that before but you've
done some crazy adventure shit in
Siberia and yeah so man I guess how far
you want to go back go back
get started with have you always been an
outdoors guy yeah we grew up on a farm
in Idaho and that kind of just puts you
in the outdoors I'd say I kind of
you know but then I was doing the normal
thing working concrete job working at a
salad dressing Factory blah blah and
then my brother took me out riding
freight trains and we rode across the
country I just like hobo like a hobo
yeah progressive hobos with backpacks
just hop the freight train jumped on a
freight train and went across the
country back and then I was also the
first time I had been you know alone for
a while at one point I split up with
them and rode for a week by myself so I
was like kind of like year was this this
was when I was 19 I'm 37 now so
something like that no cell phone no
cell phone no cell phone no cell phone
oh my god crazy person no I was awesome
it was a real taste of freedom and I
think that was kind of like a coming of
age experience for me because I just
realized oh man I don't really want to
you know I'm wasn't gonna be in this
typical life after having experienced
that like every night you know it's like
total freedom you're up yeah you never
know where you're gonna sleep you never
know who you're gonna meet you're always
out there in the elements that's pretty
uh now when you did something like that
did you plan on doing it for a long
period of time I mean I guess we just
planned to go across the country and so
check it out and my brother had been
doing it for like seven years so yes he
was like pro hobo so so talk me through
the process so he brings it up or you
guys discussed yeah he was just like you
know you've been doing it for a while
how much old is your brother five years
older so he invited me to come with him
and I started I quit my job and just one
day up in Spokane there sneaked into a
train yard take off now did you bring
money did you bring food yeah you get
cans of food in your backpack and
usually we would stop and work you know
a lot of times he had had some
connections throughout the country where
we could just stop there and work for a
guy make a few bucks and then continue
on but you don't really need much in
those situations you know you'd do some
dumpster well so you'd be surprised at
how good the food is in some of those
places they throw out
no it was humming the first night was
kind of a christening I remember it was
like April April still up in Montana
plains and Chile yeah and it poured out
poured rain and I was in the open car
and I I don't know how it happened but I
just slept through downpour my my
brother came climbing up I was sitting
there probably in 3 inches of water I
almost drowned myself the middle of
night he woke me up and I was like oh
man what happened it's a Hemmer that was
there about the longest morning of my
life just waiting for that Sun to go up
it's like going 55 miles an hour in the
wind but you know every night was some
kind of an adventure like that it was
pretty cool where all the cars open or
did you know they're sneaking to a
particular ones that oh yeah they're on
those like trains that go across the
whole you know intermodal they're called
they're always open kind of I'm just
exposed to the weather but Jeff rain
gear anything you know I had his poncho
but I ruined it and I got sucked into
the Train oh it was we ended up stopping
in Virginia and doing some temporary
work down there and that's kind of how I
ended up in Virginia and yeah I knew my
gosh I just got wanderlust huh yeah I
guess so I mean yeah I guess so it was
just a cool experience and once you get
that taste of kind of freedom it's like
a little bit hard to go back to a
nine-to-five I guess I can only imagine
I can only imagine that feeling when
you're 19 years old yeah you know and to
go back to a cubicle right right so did
my chance yeah no torture so we did some
construction jobs in Virginia and then
and then you know you I was a young guy
trying to figure out how to live a
meaningful life or whatever you know
what am I gonna do with my life and did
you have thoughts did you have like a
aspiration yeah I mean I guess to
provide some context I was on my follow
a Christian path so I was uh I mean I
always feels like I got to put some
caveat Stu that like it's like I
understand for a lot of people that
means shame I know you had like some
mean and I'm one mean none in particular
no I know it means a lot of things a lot
of people but for me it was always like
it was interesting because it was summed
up in like in the Bible like you know
love the Lord God with all your heart
and love your neighbor as yourself and
God is defined as love and so that was
kind of always the core focus for my you
know how I tried to decide what I was
gonna do in life and at the time I heard
of a guy it was over in Russia building
orphanages and needed help and so felt
really strongly that hey that was the
right thing to do how did you know hear
of this uh I have a brother that's
adopted and when he grew up he wanted to
find his biological mom and just tell
her thanks for the chance at life or
whatever and when he did turns out she
had another son who was gonna go over
there and I met him and he told me about
oh wow this guy so so I I basically felt
it was the right thing to do and bought
a ticket for a year you know just the
full years go over to Russia and and I
headed over there and that was kind of
how the next chapter I guess started in
life and how old were you then alright
21 yea 21 so 21 don't know anybody over
there don't know how to speak Russian
yeah yeah yeah that was uh I was
interesting I tried to learn absolutely
so this guy that I was building the
orphanage is an American guy but I went
over there and I didn't want to live an
American because I wanted to learn
Russian so he sent me to a neighboring
village with these two families both of
them were like ex-cons and you know I've
been spent a lot of time in Siberian
prisons but they had changed you know
they were like super cool dudes one guy
just covered in prison tattoos one of
the funniest guys I know but he did they
drink a lot you know they didn't those
guys didn't because they had change
their ways you know I'm not in prison so
they
they took me in like one of their own
and oh and I spent the better part of
that year with those guys learning the
language and how much did you know
before you got there how much nothing
just the alphabet yeah those can use
brutal yeah I mean I could make the
sounds cuz I knew the alphabet but I
didn't know what anything meant it's uh
so it was yeah that was an interesting
experience like just very isolating to
be honest but also it was uh I mean it
was pretty cool you know to write it
yeah so you could write things to people
in that what is that called Cyrillic
somebody yeah right right so you could
write things in yeah like yeah you could
read it as well yeah as I learned of
course I could pronounce out the words
cuz I could read it I didn't know what
anything man over time I started to
learn the course the guy I lived to us
was just taught me all the prison slang
and stuff Wow so that's a crazy thing to
do to just go move there with no Russian
and all did you buy a book on English to
Russian yeah but I found the best way if
you ever go to a different country I
don't know anything just have a notepad
with you and throughout you'll start to
like get familiar with words and as you
live in there and then at the end of the
day I you know I'd write those words
down as I recognize them at the end of
the day I would look up the definition
and just 5 to 10 words a day just slowly
learn and and by the end of the year I
was pretty you know starting to get to
where I could be comfortable so
conversation with people after you yeah
it was a long time to wait but well
Russian seems like it would be harder
than Spanish because you have to learn
there's that crazy alphabet it's so
different alphabet and the grammar so
different I many times know anything
about it how is the grammar so you don't
speak like if you want to say like I
love you you know there's no there's no
form in the sentence like you could say
you love AI or love you you know you
could throw the words in any dirt in any
order but the word actually changes
based on its role in the sentence so
when you're learning the language you
just get all these words dumped on you
and you have to like
to sort through you know how its formed
how would you say I love you in Russian
no you could say yeah to be I loo blue
or you blue you tibia yeah yeah yeah new
blue yeah there's like is there a reason
why you'd say it in different ways I
think you could emphasize you make
different it's it is a flexible language
in that yeah you could switch it up to
emphasize certain more ambiguous like
would people like are you sure that's
not a phrase I got a lot of practice
[Laughter]
it's fascinating that I mean it's
fascinating that people speak in a
completely different it's just a whole
different way it made me kind of
understand oh maybe that's why you get
those like Russian authors that were so
great because they were supposed to let
you know they were able to form ideas in
a slightly more flexible way maybe it
was interesting it was interesting to
learn a language it has like huh it's
actually probably a better language in
English in a lot of ways yeah I was like
it's a lot of things you can it's more
fun to speak in Russian because you can
like switch up words and make weird but
it's always been fascinating to me how
people sound so different in different
places but they have a different way
like Brazil I love Brazil and one of
things I love Brazil but the way they
speak Portuguese yeah yeah it's it's
really interesting that you know there's
different and then you go to Thailand
they've got their own way it's really
it's people are so strange and how they
I don't you know I want always wondered
like how does an accent like especially
when you think about our country right
like how does a New Jersey accent get
formed is a Virginia like living in
Virginia sometimes I'm so fascinated by
how with all like TV and and being
surrounded by the standard way English
is spoken just a
how some of you Virginia
I like my buddy described at best you
know like if you replace the arse with
the elves for like but I on these tiles
you know put it L instead of are at the
end of the word that's air on tires yeah
yeah huh yeah but then uh no it's pretty
good I don't know oh and then there's
people like Asian country
yeah and Cajun country all down there so
they they got a whole different French
it's crazy low I grew up in Boston right
and I did this thing I was on the news
when I was 19 and I heard myself on TV
and I heard my fucking terrible Boston
accent yeah and I was like oh my god I
gotta get rid of that accident and I had
only been living in Boston for about six
years
mm-hmm but I just we've traveled all
over the country and I just I guess when
I was 13 I was very impressionable right
adopted this and so I was listening to
me and I was talking about working
really hard I was like oh my god I sound
like a moron there was a little bit of
it still when I lived in California when
I first moved here now that you catch it
man you catch the egg since I hung out
with my wife's Filipino family all of a
sudden I'll be yeah it's it's just crazy
how I always wondered like what started
it like what started the New York accent
why is it so different from an accent
from the yeah you know and you know
Florida is all over the fucking place
they don't know where they're floating
but over here it's just it's you know
you go to Texas the totally different
way of talking there California yeah
it's interested is interesting a little
that's just I guess how new languages
develop over time and a devastating
that's what's always been weird to me
like I don't speak Italian
my grandparents did and they spoke
dialect right so they spoke like a
Sicilian dial and so they were they
would talk like they they would say shit
that people who speak proper Italian
didn't have no idea what I'm talking
about
so we're there's so many different ways
- mm-hmm so it's I mean I know this but
I only know this in a sense that like I
know it's a thing I don't know like you
actually experienced yeah I was really
interesting to learn a very different
language you know as an adult in kind of
spec that's just a whole new way I think
yeah yeah yeah having a little out of
practice but I got pretty fluent could
explain everything I still can you know
dinner oh yeah yeah you know I could
definitely have full conversations I
just would screw up the grammar but
could you read a book yeah yeah
sometimes a lot of times I will try to
read in Russian just the key the Gulag
Archipelago yeah one of my favorites a
heavy reading heavy reading but it's
good so when you were over there and it
took you you said like how long are you
here before you were really flew yeah I
think a year and the guys I lived with
so they'd you know both been to prison
but they had also been in prison
together with some native nomadic guy
that lived up in the north of Siberia
and so my buddy would always tell me oh
you gotta meet my buddy from the north
you know you got to go live up there and
so so I was like yeah that'd be cool
eventually he connected us you know dude
was coming through to sell furs in the
city and I was there and he introduced
me and the Evenki guy Yura invited me up
to the far north to kind of check out
his way of life is that the videos that
you show on you I'm gonna send you these
these to you Jamie cuz it's crazy dudes
riding on reindeers like you you were
what what what is the name of those
people those are the event key people
they live in they're like you know the
taiga the forest them there and they are
nomadic man I didn't even know people
like that existed until I met him
because they know you have a vineyard
you have it cutting the antler off of
one so why do they cut the antlers off
they do it for a number of reasons
one is because they that antler skin
well this one particularly was growing
into the reindeers eye so they were
going off to help the reindeer and then
you can also eat the the skin off the
velvet and it's you know a Chinese
medicine for men's health instead of
well it actually was a thing that they
were selling as a supplement and they
were they were selling oh man they're
digging in there it's all bloody and
shit
isn't it crazy like animals with antlers
it's such a bizarre thing because they
reach energy into that and caribou which
is what every year is I believe they
have the largest antlers to body size
assassination fascination so they would
ride them and take care of them the bend
occasionally they would eat them yeah
exactly they provide everything for him
so they have this they have a big herd
you know a couple few hundred reindeer
and they basically live off of them so
their their transportation their
clothing their their food their food
their economic you know so economy
basically my friends John and Jen they
live in Alberta there's a place near
them that had an elk farm and they
farmed elk for the velvet oh yeah that's
what they farmed them for they would
velvet I believe they would sell it's
like a bodybuilding company I think they
were there there was a vitality you know
it's well I think it's got growth
hormone in it what it is because there
was a time where it was a thing that you
would buy in like I don't know if they
do it anymore but in health food stores
you buy like antler spray yeah it was
somehow they broke it down to a spray
right I mean I don't even know if it
worked no yeah I don't either but it I'm
in right and pretty sure rhinoceros or
doesn't but did you see what happened
where there was fucking
tons of Beaver penis they found they
they caught a cargo going to China like
because there was tons fucking tons of
beaver penis here it is and you're fast
he's the wizard Chinese authorities
seized 12 tons of beaver pond smuggled
from Canada Wow yeah it's a vitality
thing it's about directions the cool
thing about the Venki up there is it's a
you know sustainable what they're doing
because they got their own their own
reindeer and they manage em and all that
so they don't have to import be for
people's right oh oh boy poor beavers
the summit I mean to kill that many
beavers what what is the number of
beavers it says 40 to 50 billion US
dollars what man the market value of
animal parts illegally imported on
Chinese market little steep for that
yeah it's so crazy like they have these
according to my friend who's been to
China many times she said it's not even
that they really believe that like Ryan
your dick but what it is it's like it's
so hard to get and it's so exotic and
they like having it so they're like like
if a business person push on the fucking
wall of the library and slide go back to
a tea room with Rhino dick yeah yeah
igf-1 spray supplement yeah is that I
think it's romaine it could be it could
be the fact that they do grow so fast
every year you know there might be
something in there I don't know well
well they taste good just like off the
velvet and we'd roast it over the fire
real quick and what does it time I got
the bamboo shoot' texture like kind of
that firm but it's real smoky and
anything smoky is good what does it say
banned substances although previously
found on the world anti-doping agency's
list of banned substances deer antler
spray was removed into
2013 when it was deemed completely safe
and legal to consume prior to athletic
activity okay you know what that means
that means it doesn't work safe to eat
good to know that doesn't mean that
means there's no fucking performance
oh that's a Ray Lewis who was rumored to
have used it following an injury to his
tricep in 2013 you know what I bet
they've just realized like hey you know
what is real growth hormone but this
farm near my friend John and Jen's place
they they bought this farm specifically
these people did not charge end right
these people specifically started
farming elk just for their velvet yeah
then the market crashed like it wasn't
valuable anymore I guess this was prior
to 2013 when they right and when it was
illegal yeah and so this poor guy how
all these fucking elk and yeah there's a
there's an elk farm up by my house in
Idaho that has recently closed down I
wonder similar yeah I mean how crazy is
it that the most delicious meat on earth
yeah you see not have a market fucking
antlers such a crazy animal that they
grow that stuff in like three months
yeah that rack on the wall back there is
it's gonna be some growth hormone in
there but and also with elk they keep
them a lot longer than a lot of deer
species use them to fight off wolves
uh-huh apparently they keep them like
deep into the window okay yeah yeah yeah
I know the female reindeer keep them a
long time - but isn't that interesting -
female reindeer the only deer that
actually have antlers
probably also for protection yeah I
think yeah so when you're up there and
these folks have these caribou and
they're riding them and they're taking
care of them do they shield the other
caribou from seeing one of them get
slaughtered
uh no they don't seem to be too worried
about it like there's like it's a very
like mutually it's you know symbiotic
really
and the reindeer they're always getting
attacked by wolves and tore up and stuff
and they always are coming to the people
for protection in those times not only
from wolves but even from like
mosquitoes and gnats you know they'll
blow smoky fires so the reindeer know
people are their friends and I guess
sort of are okay with an occasional so
if they have 200 of them how often do
they kill one they try not to kill them
like they actually really avoid trying
to kill their own reindeer it's that
you're mostly living off of you know
moose and wild reindeer and oh yeah
interesting though because these are
domesticated they they just behave
differently it's so weird to see them
like with saddles on and shit riding
them they're uh Alma they were one of
the first animals to be domesticated
actually thank you yeah interesting so
they before dogs not before but one of
the first I guess yeah and then they and
they've been domesticated so long that
they don't even know how to domesticate
wild ones anymore so this is crazy Jamie
go back to that let me see how they put
up these two PCP so is this up there
they have this set up ready to go
yeah then when they get to a place and
they decide to then they pull out the
sticks yeah in the summer you're moving
every three days or so just following
the reindeer herd through the forests
you know in the wintry days everything's
a little slower you'll be in a place for
a month or so but just yeah no Matt
nomads and what are they doing the
weather sucks like they have this this
always out you know it's you're just out
in the weather also basically when it's
when it's really cold negative fifty you
know like they have a little wood stove
in the in the in the teepee and it what
I was thinking pretty warm asking about
actually is the wind the way they have
these sticks set up it's like they have
these animal skins that go over is that
animals closer
that's canvas that is yeah yeah this so
it just looks like it's right yeah so
they have these canvas do they have
loops where they tie it down right yeah
they do and then they put nailin sticks
on the outside also to kind of hold them
the canvas in place but people there's
no nomadic yeah it is very nomadic and
it's man it's awesome though it's so
fascinating to live like that and
compare it to the modern world like
because not too many people get the
opportunity anymore and it's uh you're
so wired for it it's weird you know like
go until your body just falls into place
for it yeah you're all your dopamine
reset you know like you'll be out there
fishing and everyday you'll just like ya
got a fish you know cuz you're relying
on it so much and uh whereas like in
normal everyday life here in town and
stuff when you get that excited you know
like you're always you don't have any
schedule so every day you wake up it's
like well what do I need to do today and
you can kind of you're just free to
choose you know you can go try hunting
you go collect berries you go find your
reindeer and it's you know like there's
just a number of options all available
to you and they're all directly related
to your life so you don't have any you
know there's no money being thrown
around outright it's just kind of I'm
hungry let's go fishing let's go to that
spot because it's cool you know what do
they do is they get injured that's the
problem they actually have there's good
and bad out there and it just they can
call in a helicopter but it's so far out
you know it's gonna be a problem I've
broken some ribs out there and had some
myself had some serious injuries that it
just wasn't an option you know you just
got to tough it out cuz there's like
ribs broke oh man the high chopped my
knee with an axe one time was cut a
tendon that tendon on the inside of your
knee right in half and the my other knee
had recently had a knee surgery so I was
just laid up literally like three days I
was just laying in a teepee I couldn't
move I had to roll over poop in a bag it
was brutal but then you know you stay
rubbed like pine sap on it and it
actually healed and really yeah I could
have swore it would get infected but
they're just packed it with pine sap and
hind south yeah so little dried up
happen to the ligament or it doesn't
really feel it as bothering me but I
didn't know it was cut at the time it
was only later when I did it and MRI
yeah they told me it was but and so
never yield well I don't know what it
did they said it was hanging on by a
thread I don't know if it ever healed
back or well but even care you know you
know I don't I don't notice it as seeing
weeks why bother
my surgery knee hurts more than that
nice what kind of surgery I see a couple
so when you one of those videos were
showing a net is that something the way
they would fish they would do both
you know you'd like yeah a lot of times
you'd put Nets out and a lot of times
you just go cast your perch you know
homemade rod and yeah this is this is a
net they would just move it across the
middle of the river set it and leave it
and they're just trying they're just
setting it right now how do they do that
thing that they do on the ice when they
do that when it's frozen when it's
frozen when they cut a hole yeah and
then they somehow another get to go
through cutter you cut two holes and
then you get a long stick and you shove
it in the hole and slide it then like
push the stick under the ice and on one
end you have a string tied to it so you
push it and keep trying that until you
get it to slide under the ice to the
other hole and when you do you pull the
stick out of that hole and tie your net
well on the end of the other one and you
can pull so tiny string through this
string on the end of the stick do you
catch it with a hook or something and
try to pull it up let me see if I can
yeah no you just you pull the actual
stick up through with the string tied on
the backside of it so just have to get
final yeah you just got to get the stick
too you might have to three or four
times slide it under the ice until it
and the other hole where the other hole
is Wow
yeah that works good I did it on that
alone show it was fun yeah yeah yeah and
so that must be really hard to do by
yourself because I've seen people do it
on television on those mm-hmm
survival Alaska right it wasn't too bad
now was i that part wasn't too hard but
uh no yeah I don't know it was all it's
good stuff too
out there with the natives and then came
in handy first have you ever seen the
Werner Herzog document yeah yeah so they
got the native that I actually first met
that I was telling you about that Yura
guy he isn't a nomad himself he's a fur
trapper so he does all that he's real
similar to that Werner Herzog
documentary and actually where they
filmed that isn't that far from where I
was in Siberia so hit one yeah I went
fur trapping him with him one year it
was kind of showed me the rough ropes on
you know I told showed me a
topographical map he's like there's a
cabin there's a cabin there's a cabin
through some noodles in each of my
cabins you know he stalked him with
noodles and then he just dropped me off
and said to see you in a month and a
half or whatever and so just was out
there my stupid little other wrestling
oh yeah good times these kids wrestle a
lot yeah it's a good way to grow up man
always just outside having a good time
yeah I guess so the Werner Herzog
documentary was really fascinating
because as you watch those people and
when they talk about like no depression
you know they're all happy they're
always laughing they love what they do
they enjoy what they do but even though
that's like everybody's goal right
everybody's goal right everybody's like
fuck that I'm not doing that
yeah it's that's a fascinating
conversation and of itself because you
know having been up there and stuff I'm
just like man this is an awesome way to
live if it was like my friends and my
family in that context it's like I would
probably choose that way of life but you
know then you find yourself here in
America and you're stuck on your phone
and you know and it's just so
unsatisfying that it's it's interesting
to experience both but it's kind of hard
to I mean I mean cuz you're in where you
are so my family's all here everybody's
all here we're not nomads you know right
but it's funny to have experienced that
way of life and almost think man that's
kind of what we're made for it's almost
better I wish I wish I could implement
that in some way you know here I'm aware
of that because people say it but I'm
not aware of it in the sense
I've never experienced like just
completely living I've hunted camped out
for a week at a time yeah yeah you start
to get a feel for it seems like when
there's no other option like that yeah
you're eating yeah we were eating
mountain house and yeah yeah yeah shot a
deer then we'd eat the deer right yeah I
know I you were speaking of which you've
read those like Quanah Parker and moving
books and stuff me too and now having
lived with those natives it's like
there's so much good there you see like
they really are happy people so there's
a giant difference between the people
who live in the village and the people
who live in the forest and people who
live in the forest you would genuinely
call like happy people like this is
they're knowledgable they're being
productive they're doing all this stuff
whereas when you go to the village it's
just like everybody's drunk nobody's
doing everything it's like just a total
wreck
especially villages that don't have any
reindeer herding connected to them
because they kind of don't have their
cultural context to remain connected to
so the so at least in the villages that
have reindeer herding the kids can go
out in the summer and live with the
reindeer herders and kind of experience
that and it gives them a source of pride
it gives them like the experience of
living in the forest becoming like kind
of really in touch with nature and all
that and whereas in the village it's
just kind of a dark hole everybody
drinks the in those native villages it's
like the statistic is that one out of
three people die of suicide homicide or
accident so it's just and you feel it
like I've got some stories of that
that's just brutal too but the the I
when I read those like you know empire
of the summer moon those nights and
books out and I grew up with a couple of
good friends that were Native American
and it really made me think like I
wonder if you could seeing how how well
how much of a difference it makes having
that culture intact to some degree like
I wonder if say on Pine Ridge you know
on some one of these one of these
reservations if you could almost
replicate something like that like if
you could maybe take the initiative to
like restore some buffalo herd use a
bunch of unused land that maybe the you
know government land or or tribal land
that's kind of unused restore herd and
then kind of bring back those nomadic
ways it's not like everybody would have
to live that way but from my own
experience watching places that have
that option you know that kind of that
are connected to that culture flourish a
lot more than the ones that didn't there
were Venki villages with no reindeer
herding and ones with and it was like
night and day it's fun and so it's like
I wonder if that would be anyway it's
something I've thought about it's the
same thing to think of but one of the
things that happened to the Native
Americans in this country right all the
pieces of land that they got for
reservations sucked yeah the trick that
the white man pulled for sure I wonder I
was right and I wonder if it I mean it
was worth as any of that land suitable
for raising like I'm sure some of the
lines like I wonder or I'm saying every
piece of land but yeah yeah it's not
really true but a lot of it know for
sure
Oakland why they said in Oklahoma and
the Dakotas they sounded some barren
barren barren land that was Comanches
were anyway you know before the white
settlers got here fucked everything up
yeah Oklahoma was probably pretty dope
right imagine seeing 13 million buffalo
roam in the plains well there's an
interesting story to that to like that
seems a little bit imbalanced as well
and there is Dan Flores who's a Dan is a
wildlife historian right and he wrote an
amazing book called coyote America
that's about it just really gives you a
really interesting understanding of how
weird the animal coyotes are yeah
they've spread out across the entire
country it's a beautiful book but he
also wrote a book called I think it's
called bison ecology and bison diplomacy
and that maybe this was a paper might
not have been a book but essentially the
the the thought behind this was these
millions of Buffalo that you see when
that happen that only happened because
the Europeans had come and given the
plague given the right pox and all this
to Native Americans and wiped out like
an eating population massive numbers of
the the hunters so there was like at one
point in time there was as many as 90%
of all the Native Americans died which
is insane so could have been literally
millions of people dead from disease
that would have been nomadic buffalo
heart a lot of sense yeah what his
theory is is that they were in these
incredibly large numbers because of that
and that it was because he points to
there's a time where the earliest
settlers were making their way across
the country in like the 1500s and
somewhere on there and they didn't talk
about Buffalo they didn't oh yeah yeah
they talked about deer they talked about
bear they judge about all the animals
than we know existed but there was no
talking about massive Novello that all
this seemed to have come after the
Native Americans were wiped out and it
kind of makes second make sense yeah not
wiped out totally of course but you know
a large number wiped out where is these
animals just wither used to being preyed
upon just read like fucking crazy yeah
yeah and develop these huge herds I mean
you're talking about obviously over a
period of hundreds of years right right
right right yeah I know that that makes
sense would be interesting to Howard
maybe those those travelers didn't run
into the herds if they were bunched up
in groups yeah but who knows know that I
mean it makes a lot of sense 90% of the
population yeah yeah he's it's a really
interesting story like when he breaks it
down like it's it's it really isn't
imbalance if you think about it like why
would there be a million but main
predators yeah well buffaloes are so
interesting too because they don't
really predators don't fuck with them
yeah giant furry thing you can't even
kill it they're so big there's so many
of them
stomp you alright you know my friend
Remy Warren he's a very famous in the
hunting world and he had a show called
apex predator and he replicated a famous
Native American painting and his famous
Native American painting what they would
do is they'd kill a coyote skinned the
coyote and then put the coyote skins and
walk on all fours up to the Buffalo then
shoot it with a bow and arrow yeah
the Coyotes were no threat to the bundle
at all
who's the Buffalo would look at a coyote
like what you want some of this baby
coming up to a grown man like a fight I
think worried about the Coyotes yeah
it's a it's an there's it's a famous
painting - guys that's literally what
they used to do sometimes yeah a bunch
of different strategies for how to get
close enough to the Buffalo because you
know if they're using a traditional bow
like they add you know you if you're
shooting 40 yards if you're Aaron
Schneider maybe when you get into that
range like 50 60 yards like good fucking
lamb and you're lobbing them yeah and
it's probably going pretty slow anyway
by the time it gets there yeah
penetration enormous animal two by fours
four ribs yeah yeah man yeah I can
imagine hunting through those herds you
know they say they'd like sending arrows
into this massive running herd of
buffalo while you're on your horse next
to it yeah fascinating stuff well that
book by Sam Webb what is he call himself
se Gwyn yeah say his name Sam Sam Quinn
who I had on the podcast but when you
read that book there the life that they
had was so it was so intense the
Comanche though it was so fascinating
that kind of makes you want to live like
that yes even even right man that's
that's what I was talking about earlier
like even the even living with the
nomads in Siberia it's like after having
done that it's a harsh climate you know
brutal place the alcoholism is rough so
it's a problem but all that into account
it's like man you would almost choose
this you know especially now we have the
advantage of having modern
medicine and stuff also that's or and
supplies you know that you can get so
you're not gonna start with your hunts
bad and you're not gonna you know a
broken leg won't end you it's that's
fascinating that's yeah that's part of
the reason why it's like I wonder if now
you could kind of help revitalize some
of that culture in a way you know like
this they have to have an enormous piece
of land see the beautiful thing about
the way the Native Americans lived
before the white settlers came along was
that there's no boundaries the worst
they had to worry about exact tribes
right I mean and what they did to each
other was fucking horrific right that's
the other thing that gets documented in
se Gwen's book uh-huh empire of the
summer moon because right you we have
this narrative that the white man came
along and did terrible things for Native
Americans and the Native Americans did
terrible things to the white men but now
they were doing terrible things to each
other right they're humans right right
humans humans to each other especially
fighting over resources you know land
and women and buffalo and all that all
the other stuff they fought over yeah
yeah no it's true yeah you wouldn't need
a huge piece of land huge there's a but
it's like also how many how many Buffalo
would you need to have a sustainable
like right you know a sustainable thing
going I don't think it would be that
mean you know if you can do it with 200
reindeer Buffalo or a lot bigger you
know it's like I don't know but they're
hurting these you can't really yeah but
no they're like yeah no I mean I guess
you'd would be something to figure out
there's a there's an interesting project
have you ever heard of that Pleistocene
Park yeah I'll tell you about that yeah
yeah yeah it kind of reminds me of maybe
something like that where you would have
to have a big area that you kind of
that's the American Serengeti project is
that were you talking it's similar it's
in Russia though it's where they kind of
had the hypothesis that if you know back
in the day the climate wasn't that much
warmer up north it was just there was so
much density of animals that they you
know poop built better soil and grass
grew and it made for a more lush
ecosystem than the tundra now and so
they've basically fenced in the area
packed it full of musk ox and moose and
all that and sure enough you can see
pictures and the grass is growing
tolerant you know like mmm
much more life-giving ecosystem than the
surrounding just tundra the
interestingness yeah I mean it makes
sense there was a there was talk about
they were gonna do something to try to
revive the the mammoths what is this
places Pleistocene Park oh so this is
the place that is fucking freaky animals
man yeah anyway those are cool
those are cool buck projects any of
those ones where they're restoring yeah
animals it's always interesting to see
you know it can they have these theories
about you know I had a guy on last
week's name's Joel Salatin right right
he was explaining how when you farm and
let the animals just live like animals
live yeah you used their manure they
shit on the ground they eat grass and
it's actually not only does it not add
carbon to the atmosphere it actually
takes it out right it melds oh yeah and
actually builds healthy soil yeah I
don't need fertilizer the it's natural
yeah there's a whole system that
nature's put in place but when we have
mono crop agricultural setups and these
weird factory farm setups where we're
just hijacking nature forcing it to do
slave labor yeah it's a shame man it'd
be it'd be cool to tap into what you
know like permaculture I call it just
happen to some of that on a larger scale
cuz it is doesn't seem very sustainable
with those no it doesn't and the
large-scale stuff he was kind of saying
that it was possible to feed like all of
Los Angeles that way a lot of people man
much I'm not sure it's never been done
right when something's never been done
you gotta go home I don't know if you
can do it is you just start small and
see where it goes you know like yeah it
might have already fucked this up by
just having too many people this has
never been there's never been a thing
before for the last few hundred years no
better thing we pack 20 million people
yeah yeah that's crazy flying into LA
you know is my first time everybody just
like what was your first yeah
Wow packed in from good amount with my
hoe yeah to this yeah I'm into New York
and stuff good amount of smog that's
funny because it's the clearest it's
have you ever been to Beijing no oh man
talk about brutal as far as the air goes
isn't it you step off the airplane into
the airport and it's probably ventilated
and you step off and you're just like
poor it smells like like aluminum and
just nice you can't even see the city
it's so dense the the smoke and then you
kind of get used to it as you're walking
around the airport and then you step out
of the ventilated Airport and it hits
you all over that place is rough but
you're doing better now - with as far as
the smog and pollution I've been to
Mexico City though I don't think it's as
bad as Beijing but I got a headache the
moment I go and you can't see shit when
you're flying in you would swear there's
a fire yeah it's just how it is there
yeah that's rough now you were saying
that these people that live in the
villages outside of the the people that
are nomadic those people live in a real
shitty way yeah it's like there's a it's
like unconnected to any other villages
you have to only get there by helicopter
you fly in and it's what do they what is
their their job um some of them work
like in relation to the reindeer herds
and I don't know I think a lot of people
live off a like grandma's pension which
you know in Russia is pranic hundred
bucks or something you know and you know
some people work at the school and the
administration is this not a lot going
on but a lot of people are sustenance
like hunters fishers and trappers know
that live in the village but yeah it's
it's it's so weird because the first
time I went there it was just like man
this place is crazy everybody's drunk
it's just like being in like a zombie
land like even when the reindeer herds
will come from the woods I like running
to their house lock the doors shut
everything up and then you'll just see
everybody like marching over and then
they'll start banging on the doors and
the windows and the and the guys inside
the house Rock
you know I can just just just drunk just
it's just insanity like but it's and
it's weird because then you take the
same people go into the woods they sober
up and it's just a night and day that's
so weird
so weird and then uh yeah it's buddy you
see the effects of it so like I was
telling you earlier it's pretty brutal
uh when I first went to over there there
was like a little you know a nice family
it was like Dasha and Artem you know
these and their two little kids well the
first time I was there I got back all
right met the family and I lived with
them in their teepee and all this and
that and then I went back to America
sure enough right after I left a tree
fell on their daughter out in the woods
and killed her and then they after that
got you know started drinking a bunch
quit the nomadic way of life started
living in the village I went back over
there the girl or the the guy got
stabbed in some drunken brawl or
whatever and was in the in the hospital
slowly recovered you had this big old
gash with a piece of glass someone had
cut him open with he slowly recovered
and then went back to his village
the drinking continued sure enough they
killed him they took his body too back
to the morgue which the the freezers had
broken right so it's in the middle of
the summer those bodies there but it was
a murder so they had to wait for the
police to come and investigate but it's
way out in the middle nowhere so it took
like a week and it's like a week later
it was just brutal go over there had to
you know pick up this guy was your buddy
and his wife is helping me like dressed
this body cuz they're basically like
okay we're done with the investigation
you can go bury decomposing yeah yeah I
mean and the wife is helping you yeah
and the wife's helping we like took care
of his body like pick him up and like
skin slips off and all that stuff and
then take care you know we took her and
buried it and buried him it was pretty
rough and then a year later I come back
she
gotten remarried you know kind of
starting her life again turns out he
hangs himself not long afterwards so
again it's this woman has lost two
husbands and her daughter she just her
and her son oh I just found out a little
while ago she got too drunk passed out
in the snow and died so now it's just
the one son left from this whole family
and you like hear those stories often up
there it's like really rough you know
but that's balanced with what is could
be so beautiful it's like such a
juxtaposition because you're out in this
life where you have like people are
happy you know ultimate freedom and
they're doing great but when they but
the village in the alcohol just does
this whole other thing to them and it's
like these people who are so beautiful
so nice so friendly you know so open do
you but you just see them suffering so
much from this scourge it's like man
it's brutal it's crazy that the scourge
doesn't extend to the people that live
in the forest yeah once they get out in
the woods you know they don't have the
alcohol available and they don't but
even if they did do you think they would
drink it it seems like yeah they usually
drink it you know like when they go to
the village they get it and then they'll
take go out to the woods and they'll
drink for a few days until it's all gone
and then it's also I think it's a
genetic thing that's been a good
quitters that there's that hypothesis
like that maybe it is because if people
have been introduced to alcohol more
recently that they're not yeah I'd you
know can't process it as well but that
was a thick could also there could also
have the explanation it's probably a
combination of both that when you do
like have a people that are largely
stripped of their culture and they're
like you know because even the Evenki is
cool their way of life is you know they
had you know 70 years of communism where
they came in and they collected all the
best reindeer herders and said that they
were like cool ox or well you know like
the bourgeois because they have too many
reindeer sent them all to prison you
know like collectivized all these
reindeer herds these family herds they
turned into like government herds you
know so it's been like their cultures
not
completely intact and it's like well
there might be enough cause just from
that kind of thing to explain some of
the alcoholism but I imagine it's a
combination of both you know yeah I've
always wondered that about the Native
Americans sort of like how much of it is
despair and being removed from their
normal nomadic way of life right how
much of it is just the fact that they
don't have the genes to process alcohol
because they didn't evolve with alcohol
yeah you know there's a story of Cynthia
Ann Parker yes on the wall out there
whose Quanah Parker's mother she was
kidnapped by the Comanche when she was
nine hmm and then recaptured by the
Texas Rangers I think was the Texas
Rangers when she was like 30 with a
child and she was begging to go back to
the Comanches she did not want to live
and she found the way of living that the
settlers had was just pathetic
you know the the command she lived in
the world where everything was magic and
like the sky was a god the wind worship
nature you lived off the land right
followed the buffalo herd and then also
dan you're in a fucked up in a house
yeah and you got it pushing Jesus on
your iced man it's the same same thing
over there it's like right it's this a
Drex position of ultimate freedom in
this beautiful way of live versus like
you're in the village in this little
house you know these people are never
gonna be good like in Russian society
because they live in some remote village
no internet nothing you know like yeah
and then but they're also the ones that
aren't connected to their way of life
are also not going to be great at Vinci
because they've just lived in this
little house and drink you know a bunch
so hey people get caught in that weird
in-between place and it seems like even
if it's not cultural there's something
there's something that draws people to
that way of life well live like that
it's very satisfying absolutely and as
my from my own experience like yeah I'm
not a native you know but I lived with
them and it was awesome and it like
spoke to me deeply same thing even on
you know things like the alone show it's
like oh man
this is what we're built for you know
like you really feel it
it's it's you know an interesting thing
like I don't have like a great memory or
you know I don't usually have good very
vivid or interesting dreams but when I'm
in the forest you know it's like I have
all these vivid dreams that seem really
meaningful and powerful it's like my
memories way better I remember people
that have long forgot you go so long
without distraction you can really delve
into your thoughts and yeah it's a
fascinating thing to experience and once
you do you kind of realize you know
what's missing and I was interesting at
listening to you talk to like Elon Musk
and as the you know inevitable march of
progress moves forward it's like we kind
of lose things but we don't actually
know what we're losing you know and so
as far as like the natives and like one
of the reasons I want to see them
preserve their cultural culture and
their old ways and take it forward is
just it's kind of a memory receptacle so
that as things move forward we can still
connect you know with what we've lost
because it is a lot you know well it
seems like we're becoming something
different it seems like we used to be
this thing's animal that figured out how
to use tools and glows figured out how
to live off the land and figured out how
to live in harmony with nature and then
we invented electricity yeah then we
invented something that allowed you to
project media like whether it's radio at
first and then television and then we
are connected in this way where the
world is it's a smaller place in some
ways because it's you you're connected
to everybody but it's still the same
size really right and it's also far more
complicated because you get so much
information there's so much yeah like
Twitter like I don't know if they want
Twitter but I've actually saved myself
from saying dip my toe into it every now
and then just a peek at the fucking
madness it's like a it's like a bunch of
chimps with weapons
fighting in a box yeah this madness I've
appreciated your stance on like putting
something up and forgetting about
but it is dodge it is hard to do that of
course those are I mean yeah it's hard
to not get sucked into social media but
it doesn't really speak to you anyway
but it just like absorbs your time your
time in a negative way that I very
rarely get anything positive yeah I get
occasionally interesting stories from
people that I follow and I appreciate
that but the actual communication aspect
of it like you mean corny to them like
ya know interested like this right like
in a way even though this is digital
mm-hmm like you and I are sitting at the
I don't even like what I do them
remotely doing remotely because the
pandemic or better it's fun yeah but
it's that's uh I think that and I think
that's in ironically because podcasts
are a digital medium in a lot of ways
it's one of the reasons why it resonates
with people mm-hmm because they can tell
that we are really having a conversation
in a way that people don't have them
much like you don't really have
three-hour conversation that's someone
where you just don't look at your phone
just sit across from each other and talk
to each other and then talk about all
kinds of shit yeah yeah it's a beautiful
thing it's like yeah and you gotta have
that it's like yeah yeah that's one of
the things the experience like what you
know when I'm in the woods or on that
yeah I was on that show it's amazing how
little you miss social media right don't
miss it at all but then when you come
back to life it's still just like yeah I
just
that's like the clown from it it's it's
really interesting that those people
that live in the village are so close to
the happy people yeah they're so close
to the time so close to and those people
and that Werner Herzog documentary you
watch it and you're like like why is it
why is it that people think there's part
there's like a cynical aspect of our
society where they look at people to
live like that like that's dumb
no electricity plastic windows yeah yeah
you know because the Bears might attack
us but meanwhile he's not on
antidepressants you are he's not on you
no he's not on xanax you are he doesn't
drink before he was to bed every night
because he can't deal with life you did
it's cool cuz you're out there and it's
like your creative juices flowing you
know like you get problems constantly
coming up and it's like you gotta think
to solve them and they're all I mean
that's probably how people like
developed creativity it's like yeah how
do I catch this moose or how do I you
know do this or that and and you really
just feel alive in that way
he really do I well so many people have
done it like detached and then
documented it like I'm sure you're aware
of Nick prenta key yeah he's got there's
a bunch of great videos of him before he
died where he you know he moved up there
I believe he had some sort of an
industrial accident when he was like in
his late 40s or early 50s and he almost
went blind and then made the decision
like I'm not living like this anymore
I'm gonna get a fucking cabin just live
in the woods and live off the land and
there's something so universally
appealing about that where those videos
are fascinating make his tool bill his
house right and that's that's a just to
add to that it's super appealing what's
actually interesting about like native
culture and stuff is you have that but
you also have community because you've
got like multiple teepees or whatever
there's all these people and you're
interacting with your family and loved
ones while also you know living in yeah
you're not out by yourself and they're
all living that kind of fulfilled life
right so you're all like feeding off it
together very in touch with like the
cycles of life like it doesn't it didn't
feel you know death feels more like a
natural part of the thought you're
always seeing it with the reindeer and
with this and that you know there's
always and it just feels more natural
part of life it's less there's a little
bit less existential angst I would
imagine amongst the right any of the
average Nomad out there than there is
here in LA it's a far
sweeps through communities particularly
now because nobody could work this is
the grossest I've ever seen it because
these people are so angry and depressed
and there I wasn't frustrated and
everyone's in a mask and you don't get
the like personal connection of like
just seeing someone really well and if
you try going out in LA
they'll screaming you if you don't have
a mask everyone's judge dredd it's like
come on Jesus Christ common sense
meanwhile I was in Texas is last weekend
normal people say hi shake your hand
walking around no man go to a restaurant
they make the waiters wear masks mm-hmm
but everybody else hmm everyone's
fucking sitting there like normal people
and it seems fine yeah be interesting
yeah and just life has inherent risk
yeah but they're likely coronavirus
cases rise and they walk it off but of
course it will rise but it's also like
yeah but yeah we got you also got to
live yes really should go outside that's
probably one of the big reasons why you
were sick in the first place
lack of vitamin D being cooped up no
healthy lifestyle
absolutely all those things that are
like a side effect of the city the bad
food the sedentary lifestyle the lack of
nutrients all those things contribute to
all those diseases yeah and then people
being stacked on top of each other like
like think about where they got it the
worst New York New York City we just
think about how they live they live in a
really weird way it's exciting it's fun
but it's not normal like compared like
take someone from the taiga and bring
them to Manhattan borough the pandemic
and they'd be like what is this ya know
and you've never seen a TV the fucking
trip oh my god you get so do you'd be
exhausted immediately there's a vice
vice guy to travel special on
that you could watch on this guy hind mo
and lives in hide moco I think his name
is and he lives in really far north
Alaska and its hind Mo's artic adventure
as well as Paul and this guy moved out
there I believe in the 70s he was
working as a logger and he has a permit
to have a cabin up there's like the last
guy to have a permit he has like a
permit on his door in case of spa
because really not supposed to live out
there but is allowed to and he's a
really intelligent guy really articulate
guy and he just talks about how he just
hunts caribou and catches fish and that
he believes this is how people are
supposed to live this feels really
connected yeah and really healthy and
happy and I mean he looks great there's
like in his 60s he's just wandering
around hunting and fishing and
occasionally has to shoot a bear because
it's fun yeah trying to steal his food
yeah yeah but there's something about it
that again this is not a guy who grew up
like that right but he just it resonated
with him in a way that nothing else did
my wife came with me to Siberia for
spent a winter and a summer but you know
it's like she's from New York City no no
way yeah and she went out there and
loved it you know like it's like it's
like a way better she could see what it
was and uh she could feel that
connection it actually interestingly is
a little tougher there's hi mother ago
he lives up there and one of the things
that he said that was really interesting
and so what's really funny is this dude
who's with him is uh I guess you could
call him a millennial and yeah it looks
like a reporter little fellow with
glasses on has probably never done this
a day in his life but he's got balls cuz
he went out there and lived with this
guy for a little bit and stayed in a
tent the whole deal but this guy had
never seen 911 hi know and didn't know
anything never never laughs and yeah and
then one day years later I believe he
saw a photo of it it's like that
Japanese guy that didn't know World War
two ended right exactly the guy in the
island yeah so this guy
this reporter lives with them for quite
a while and sort of experiences the life
and it's the same thing
it's like there's something about it
that resonates with you and see the way
this guy lives his life you're like wow
this is amazing yeah yeah I think it's
uh I mean obvious there's a big for
someone that grows up in a city or
something there's like a big hurdle to
get over but I I think it would be
fairly I want to say Universal but I
think a lot of people would really
connect to it yeah once you experience
it well my friend Dan Dan Cody he
actually takes people out in
particularly kids troubled kids right
and takes them to the woods and and for
extended periods of time yeah it has
them live off the land
yeah and as a therapy so you take these
kids that are that have affluenza to
your father and shit and they take them
out to the woods and dan has this hole
he's got some project he's doing I
forget what it's called see you can find
it dan Doty but he actually has extended
this to men and it there's these these
retreats they do and essentially the
idea is like to just reconnect people
with nature
connect people with hard work and living
in the in the forest in a natural way as
a therapy mm-hmm and there's something
incredibly derrida's right there what is
it called everyman yeah and that's my
band the guy on the right I've been
hunting with him I used to be on the
meat-eater crew and then now he's doing
this and that's cool that's me and him
yeah you go and dance is a great guy and
it's it's a really interesting thing
that he sort of felt like he had a
calling to introduce people to this sort
of way of life as a therapy right as
just just giving them a new perspective
and letting them know that there's
there's actually meaning to this this is
not as simple as like oh let's go
camping and be an asshole mm-hmm fucking
weed we tried a similar thing in Siberia
where we took a bunch of the village
like young guys that were just kind of
drink in their childhood away yeah took
them out into under that year guys you
know trapping lands and how that goes
well well I mean they all did great
while they were out there of course it's
like a temporary thing
when unfortunately like when I left a
lot of them went back to doing the same
thing they were doing but it's like
gives people a opportunity you know like
that's all you can do you can't force
anyone to change but yeah you can show
them the stream yeah yeah it's gotta be
hard because if you've experienced that
way of life only briefly but the other
way of life is very normal you just go
back to your old friends and your old
you know although that that said there
was one dude that did it you know really
yeah that's all yeah that's really I got
out of how many people oh there's only
like five that's amazing that's great I
don't live felt not like a failure bet
it just felt like hey man
20% yeah I mean if you get a hundred
people and twenty of them turn their
life ya good as any therapy oh yeah sure
I mean how many people go to therapy for
years and you know barely budge right
yeah that's absolutely true think of it
that way there you go thanks for the new
way so were you aware of a loan before
you went to do it yeah well it's like I
had watched it I don't watch much TV but
it happened to be the one show that I
kind of liked so I watched the first two
seasons and basically just sent him a
link to my you know you everyone watches
it like I could do that I forgot about
it and then a few years later they
called me out of the blue and said yeah
we want you on season six well it must
be like Fear Factor when we were doing
the tractor we would get just not I mean
I wasn't going through them but the rest
were going through the casting folks
they were hitches fucking navigate at
all yeah dude you have to get really
lucky to even but they found you yeah
they found me somehow and then I would
think that they would think you were a
little bit too good at it
this yeah I guess I don't know what they
thought but it was I was pretty happy
when they when I found out it was gonna
be in the north
you know like Rob's like Oh awesome
that's like that place how much money do
you win when you win at 500,000 whoa
nice little change yeah so it's
definitely motivating how it's a lot of
a lot of manual labor to do that
especially 77 days worth I'm pretty
fuckin not bad wages yeah real good
so when you sign up for the show how
much time in advance do they give you
you probably hear maybe two three months
before they drop off so months when you
hear okay you're gonna I guess you know
actually might be less like a month and
a half yeah yeah from when they select
you to win you get dropped off so when
you knew you were selected and you knew
your did you do anything to prepare you
do little things like I had been living
with my family you know like I had I
haven't been in Russia for a few years
because I had a few kids and doing the
whole family thing and found out I was
going on at the helm man like I'm a
little rusty on all this but I but
mostly my main preparation was trying to
put on weight which is always not that
easy for me so I was drinking like many
calories as I could trying to put on a
little extra weight and shooting the bow
you know getting out there shooting the
recurve trying to dial in a little bit
on that and why'd you choose a recurve
over a compound because you're only
allowed to recurve yeah it's got to be
kind of primitive gear than you get yeah
sweet with the company but no it was
cool the some be on my preparations were
mainly that mainly just ramping on
weight dial in on the bow and you know
know when you sick
try to put on weight that was so that
you could burn fat yeah I just ran out
of food right just so I had a little
more reserves I'm a skinny guy with a
fast metabolism like previous winners of
the show had usually been bigger dudes
that
had a lot extra weight to lose you can
live off your fat for a long time water
there's actually a guy Rob wolf was Rob
wolf that told us about this guy that
had lived the know Dom D'Agostino told
us about this guy who lived a ketogenic
diet who went he fasted for 360
something days he must have been huge he
was fat as fuck but at the end of it was
a normal size and what's really crazy is
he didn't have this the loose skin
there's a lot of people that lose weight
his whole body shrunk yeah became like a
normal guy good for him he lived off the
vitamins and water took a vitamin trip
and and drank water and for a whole year
ate no food yeah and his body just lived
off the fat yeah yeah that's amazing
yeah it's a crazy story yeah yeah I mean
takes yeah I wonder what he did for just
like hunger pangs I know I don't and
when you're that fat I mean you switches
have a year's worth of food just
carrying around yeah I think he got down
like 160 pounds and became a normal
person like was morbidly obese do you
know it good II lost 270 I wonder if
they real to keep it off you know I know
he's a fat fuck now now he's 3,000
pounds back to doughnuts yeah back in
the day that's what he is that him
wasn't a 60s Oh was it really Wow sure
yeah I know you say doesn't have like a
a lot of that skin no he wasn't plagued
with is this this is the only time this
was done was in the sixties when I typed
it in it so popped up there's no fasted
for 385 days like a hunger strike or
something but Wow
look at what he used to look like versus
what he looks like at the end that's
nuts
yeah so I was I was I was self-conscious
about my weight going on there like I'm
too skinny for this sport okay so what
kind of stuff did you eat back on the
path the calories oh I was just drinking
Olive Oyl and trying to get fat off of
that most olive oil yeah what kind of
farts did you have like your homeland
now did you drink soda to to try to get
sugar yeah yeah I tried drinking those
weight gainer shake things but man those
Goss rudl yeah you feel fucking dis
wreck you
oh they it's terrible yeah those were
like I remember back in my like right
out of high school there's a lot of guys
we're trying to put on muscle would
really common this tub put many scoops
into the shape and just fucking feeling
in your stomach just drinks and just not
meant to be at them so so you just
drinkin olive oil did you wind up
putting on any weight yeah I got like 25
pounds or so so that was actually pretty
good in like a month and a half or
whatever that's pretty impressive
you're really lean it was all fat and
now and honestly that that weight went
away really fast to when I was out there
like just from your exercise and yeah
just from running around and yeah yeah I
would imagine the cold alone yeah you
burn I mean I think it was about you
know you averaged around a pound a day
just losing weight maybe a little that's
kind of scary
yeah so you kind of feel like the
pressures on to hunt some big-game hunt
you know like yeah so do you have formal
training with a recurve do you know how
to use it correctly no I don't it's self
taught so I need to go meet up with
Aaron and get some tips right well
that's why Aaron really got into it
because he's such a good bow hunter with
a compound that he actually found it to
be not too challenging is you needed and
wanted and he wanted to kind of prove to
himself and other people that he could
do the same yeah with a recurve bow yeah
yeah
he's got these videos of him shooting
bull's-eyes like 45 yards a curve kind
of crazy it is that's really cool and uh
yeah I mean I just practice getting
better I'm gonna practice a lot you do
and you do I did notice on that show
like there's something about you by
yourself and you need the food you get
so concentrated you're so dialed in like
when I go shoot at a target it's hard to
really be fully focused but man when you
see like the squirrel or the rabbit over
there it's just like you're so dialed in
that I found my I was pretty accurate
out there were you using the point of
the arrow the tip of the arrow were you
using that as a guide like Dee when you
aim yeah yeah well let's see maybe it's
a little more instinctually than that
but yeah you kind of yeah it's the point
of the arrow
Shinda yeah this party aaron was trying
to explain to me how he used it like he
actually like to a certain range like he
knows like what where his 20-yard range
the point of his broad head oh yeah ya
know that's a good idea I mostly was I
mean I've done a lot of bow hunting to
here and looking down the shaft of the
arrow versus like a recurve or a
compound right your your string is much
lower in your face yeah yeah yeah yeah
you're using the arrow to kind of guess
the distance between the target and yeah
the top here yeah and just you know like
bow hunting just a lot it gives you good
experience with estimating range that's
one of the most important things because
with the recurve you got a big arc so
right five yards yeah so did you have a
target that you practice with while
you're out there now I was out there I
practiced a lot on just rabbits and
squirrels you know every day.this mm-hmm
got pretty dialed a nine arrows nine
arrows you loosening off the coupling
shooting it squirrels and trees and
tempting no what about fat like yeah I
would think that you would need fat well
yeah you do and that's so that's why you
eat the whole animal you know suck the
brain out of the rabbit try to get every
bit of fat you can get and I I learned a
lot about that
out there because I mean I caught a lot
of rabbits and squirrels early on but I
still just lost weight as fast as if I
wasn't eating it felt like yeah
starvation yeah yeah I was when I went
out there I was like I wonder how long
that takes is that like a year but
basically it's as soon as you start
eating there's no yeah not much on him
it was like maybe enough to make up for
the energy I was expending by running
around like I don't think I lost fat
their weight faster than someone that
was just sitting there I was probably
about the same but I was able to run
around have fun you know shoot my bow
and like learn mile and see how animals
were moving and stuff so you didn't have
any supplies that you initially set out
with no food no food yeah it's it's a
fascinating experience when the
helicopter drops you off flies away and
you're you've never scouted this place
before you didn't get to choose where
you're at and just flies away and you're
just like wow something I have to scout
it yeah they did yeah they scout out and
basically try to find 10 spots that have
some form of potential sustainability on
him and then you got to try to unlock
the key you know did you have any
filtration system for water no I started
by boiling all my water but then I just
slowly drank bits of raw water until I
could pretty much just drink wow raw
water because it's I was it was a big
old lake up in the far north it's like
there's pretty clean yeah and I didn't
get sick but I drank out of a lake once
off of Prince of Wales Alaska
apparently it's high enough altitude so
there's no beavers yeah I thought we had
done in Siberia too and it's always even
in like Moss puddles it's like this
yellow water but no that's dip right in
now when you said you drank a little bit
that was to test to see yeah it mildly
sick rather than chugging it to begin
with
right so you boiled it first and then
started sipping in a little bit and then
eventually just we're drinking it yeah
although another thing in the fart in
the cold when you're trying to conserve
calories like that you don't want to
drink a lot of cold water so I'd eat it
any
so yeah what did you do for shelter uh
they a tarp was one of the things we
took so I built a little like a-frame
shelter just out of logs covered it like
chinked it with moss but the frame over
I spent less time on shelter and more
time like procuring food and hunting so
it was a quick shelter threw it up I
knew I mean I've lived in a teepee in
that weather so I like knew I was gonna
be fine on the cold as long as I could
provide enough calories to keep my body
warm so how many days it take you before
you got an animal well I got a rabbit on
day one so that was nice and then I
continued to get rabbits but it was 23
days when I got a moose so that was good
months of eating yeah I mean again I was
amazed how much fat you eat you know
like yak so I was I was counting my
moose and be like hmm this isn't like an
infinite supply of food here you know
yeah cause you're definitely eating more
fat than you are protein but plus I had
a Wolverine come and pillage my stores
of fat and stuff so yeah how did that
happen what where did you store
everything well it was initially I
didn't to be honest I didn't expect to
see a Wolverine I never have and I just
wasn't something on my consciousness and
so when I got the moose I put all the
meat up on this shelf I built and
thought man if a bear comes it'll be
great I'll have a chance at a bear you
know I'll wake up at night and kind of
be like a bait pile basically plenty of
fat yeah yeah and so I was maybe
expecting a bear to come but I went to
sleep the first night I got the moose
and woke up and came out and they were
just tracks everywhere somehow I hadn't
woken up but Wolverines a lot sly or
animal and he had come and pulled out
all the kidney fat you know I had like a
jug of kidney oh you're fat you hauled
off a full gallon jug packed with kidney
fat I had other fat but I was like you
know weeks of fat there to find it no
huh it was it was rough and so then he
was pretty excited I'm sure that
Wolverine just can't come in
back everyday I figured I don't know if
they're like I figured they were
nocturnal but they sure enough I'd be
like out there scraping my moose hide in
the middle of they'd come running up and
like try to grab some meat and run off I
was like holy smokes this thing's bulb
is this a photo of him
yeah that's the one that's at my shelter
there he is sneaking around the yeah so
he stole 35,000 calories which is gold
up there
so you got some serious gear on you
weren't qu you yeah yeah not naked and
afraid that's a serious hunting gear
yeah yeah yeah and there's you're a
pillar yeah is that when you pissed off
the moose fat yeah moose fat contains
roughly thirty five thousand calories
Wow gone that shit in the little tent
with you yeah if I should really should
have I thought I would hear a bear
coming but didn't thing will drink then
the anyway he kept coming every day and
I knew I knew it was gonna be me or him
kind of on that scary little fox I heard
I read maybe you Jamie could find it but
that one killed a polar bear in the zoo
a while ago a Wolverine yeah yeah I'm
not shocked or Rochas little things see
them chase off bears chasing bears often
kills wolves osius yeah and they're so
durable like they get bit by bears and
wolves and they just fucking shake it
off yeah it's just a weird animal right
it is so ferocious yeah and small little
muscle ball like what you eat him yeah
of course if you shoot a well I was
actually killed it with my ax but when
you do that you've got eat the heart out
of it so I cut it opening the heart the
drumstick of course but it tasted like
skunk so I was like I'll save the rest
for a ring you know it's can't taste
like smelled and I was assuming
now they have a musky flavor too I'm
sure looking gross animal yeah imagine
much testosterone those little of course
and Rochas so you wha you ate his
drumstick and that's it there and not
Indian organs for the vitamins oh yeah
did you try to use the rest of them for
bait for something no I was just saving
it for eating later you know I put it up
- yeah when a dark day so when you
didn't have the fat like what was it
like just eating did you have some fat
oh you still have a lot I mean to be
fair there's still a lot of found a
moose like there was all the ribs you
know the but the rump has a big ol dick
Lehr fat you got the so weird to the
bone marrow okay yeah that's all
straight fat the brain you know there's
like there's a lot of fat still but that
was kind of the easiest fat you know
anyway yeah it was it was sad but not
the end of the world it was only it was
mostly depressing and that I figured
somebody else got something big and once
I lose that now I'm at a disadvantage
again so then it put the fire under me
to keep getting more you know so you
killed him with an axe but you shot him
in the bow first right yeah the
Wolverine yeah so what did you like you
pinned him to the ground with the yeah
it was he had come the night before and
I had seen him behind a bush and I you
know I had my flashlight and I could see
his eyes and I've thought about firing
an arrow in there but I was like how
surely he's gonna come out and I'll get
a better shot but he must he like closed
his eyes snuck away and I never saw him
leave from behind the bush I was like
did I miss my opportunity the next day I
saw him again the next night coming down
through some shrubs and I had like set
up some warning systems around like cans
on string so I'd hear him coming and I
heard like clang oh gosh got my bone
went outside
sure enough you'd like scurried down
this hill went behind a bush and I just
sent my arrow in there this time in the
bush through the bush and so I don't
know what it did going through there but
it deflected deflected yeah pinned his
leg is back leg to the ground like top
of the arrow was in the branches and it
just gave me enough time to
my ax run over there he was just like
you know zakian no video one those
little guys dude you must have been so
fucking terrified and yeah it wasn't it
cool like you pictured me like killing
it but it was like film all that - yeah
but it was at night so it's kind of
grainy you know so that's the crazy
thing right like you don't you're not
just doing something being so selfish
film so yeah like yeah did they give you
tips on how to film yeah they give you
film tips before you go out I actually
found like thistles and everyone's
experience but I found it was like kind
of nice to have a camera cuz when I had
been like fur trapping in Siberia it's
like you're just alone alone and
everything you do just feels like
nobody's never gonna know about it you
know like you do all these cool things
and yeah I remember like I'd been out
there for a few weeks and I came into
like s beautiful woods in Siberia you
know and I remember being like wow
that's weird that was the first time
I've spoken out loud in like three weeks
you know so it's like let's just saying
Wow yeah well like caught my attention
oh that was my voice you know like and
then of course your minds really active
but it's just all in your head
but on the show with the cameras you
know it's like you're constantly like
talking about stuff and it kind of made
me feel like I wasn't quite as alone so
when they tell you when they give you
the camera equipment and tell you to go
out and film yourself how much battery
life do you have well you get this big
like car battery size pack that you can
like recharge your batteries with and
then they'll occasionally come on like
med checks to to see make sure you're
not too skinny or something like that
really yeah yeah how often do they check
on you
it varies sometime around 10 days or so
every time they give you a bell to ring
or something do you have a you have a
thing that you like it's the thing you
would give up with like if you were
ready to tap out Garmin yeah it's like
it you can send texts on it okay and
then let's say you touched
every morning and night and basically
say I'm okay oh and so they know you're
okay if you don't do that then they'll
come and probably see if you're alive
still oh wow Bao and so but there are
they
I would imagine their show is entirely
dependent not just on you succeeding but
documenting every yeah I think that mean
they were very clear with us like the
you guys have to document everything we
need eight hours of footage a day
minimum
you know Wow and when you're out there
do you have a solar charger no no so but
you know probably wasn't a lot of Sun up
there that time of year hmm but that big
battery block and you got a lot of
little packs battery packs mm-hmm and
okay it's kind of what restricts where
you're you know where you live is that
yeah dear stuff so when you're swinging
an axe of this Wolverine you've got all
that on film yeah it's in the shot yeah
well you can see me it's like I'd like
cuz I heard some and I heard him coming
and because my my cans were a long ways
away you know i ways away with my tripod
my camera set it on time in because he
had a trail so I knew generally where
he'd be coming so I just set my camera
put it in that direction and that's kind
of where he came that would be a giant
distraction yeah that would make it
something I missed the first moose
because because there was a different
moose that I had shot at that I totally
missed but big giant dinosaur of a moose
it was so cool to see but I grabbed my
bow and arrow and my camera and ran out
there set the camera up took my shot and
I was like oh I didn't grab my quiver
and so my first shot I misjudged the
distance and dropped the arrow between
his legs I like oh oh no I only grabbed
water cuz I grabbed my stupid camera run
when the arrow came near him no I like
job between his legs he looked around I
totally would have had time for another
shot it was a real kick in the pants so
then I he kind of took off trotted off
and I was just like man did he know you
were there was he aware of you not too
aware like I took a shot he like heard
it knew something was up what had
happened is I had set again like those
cans up as a warning system and I heard
him
like in the morning hit the cans and I
figured that would just warn me want you
know if something hit the cans it would
wake me up and I could go out and try to
hunt it what actually happened is he
went through the can scared himself and
ran like perfectly in my direction and
turned around and looked at the cans
like broadside to me like I came out and
it was just a perfect shot but it was 40
I paced it off afterwards 43 yards and
he was such a big animal that I thought
he was closer so I put him at like 30
yards guessing you know and I missed my
first and only shot did you call him in
yeah I've been calling moose like every
day I would just pick berries call moose
[Laughter]
[Music]
yeah get in your lungs and learn that
from my friend Mike Hawk Ridge yeah now
when you when you're doing that you're
you're waiting a long time right you're
calling them and then you just shout
waiting literally it was like I'd find a
good berry patch just sit there and eat
berries and call and he buries and call
and yeah and that's all I would do and
honest and I think both the bull moose
that I saw came into that calling
because it would always but it would
take him a long time so I'd like call
all evening and then they would usually
come in in the morning which was
interesting so it's not like they they
come from mine but yeah they must have
come from a long ways away they come
like huffing and puffing all in the
rough stuff like yeah yeah yeah they're
so vocal yeah it's nice you can mimic
their voice with your voice yeah right -
yeah yeah you can actually make the the
horny you've got to get into it so were
you in the was it in the rut yeah yeah
they want to give you a chance
yeah now you shot that moose how did the
other people survive and how many people
made it a lot of people just dude
toughness you know like just starving
out like dude you know that you were
pointing out yes just catching a few
rabbits here and there you know like
fishing is a big thing you know like
but yeah it was it was nice to have the
most first man I knew I had to is like
that I'm not gonna have a chance if it
was starvin out of there so fast did
anybody else get a moose no huh I
assumed someone would but it's I mean
again with a recurve it's pretty hard
Plus you haven't ever scouted your
territory so you don't know how things
are going because I was so focused on
getting one right from the bat like
right when they dropped my helicopter
off it was like I went out and scouted
like where might moose come in string by
nose no you can't take those but I just
think I just put my shelter where the
wind would always be blowing my sent out
to the sea you know it out to them and
taking into account all those little
things you know like yeah
building my shelter away from where
moose might walk by so then I wouldn't
blow up a spot you know how that kind of
stuff so how did the other people what
did they eat yeah I mean a lot of to
them after it was like summer it's a 77
days before they quit seventy two or
three go an extra four days
yeah the storm came in and they couldn't
get out there did you know about it no I
have no idea oh wow
plugging along up so who the fuck made
it to 72 days uh it was a girl named
Bonilla and she and another guy named
Nathan made it um you know this his
shelter burnt down and I was kind of in
for him both of them made it right up to
71 72 days his shelter burned down he
said I'm not making another one yeah I
mean it was cold at that point be proud
that's a girl yeah she caught her bow
and she said she's happy I think happy
to finally eat chop it all up yeah and
so yeah they would you know as everybody
did but Dennis you just eat everything
Oh crazy I'll read that birds meat is
that's nuts
those I got a like a beef and I mean
right read a venison bird doesn't it
yeah it's crazy look at her so happy I'm
so happy
so she almost almost made it
yeah she did really well but fucking
palsy people to do this yeah it's pretty
intense
you know like good for everybody that
tried you did you get like yeah but they
don't get shit and yeah 72 days of Star
Trek and one guy walks away with a half
a mil yeah that's crazy how much moose
did you have left at the end of the show
a couple hundred pounds you know as much
is like good I was so hungry plus I was
having fish so I would have fish for
lunch and then more breakfast and like
dinner I would moose and I was just I
basically I told myself well I can't
quit until I finish this whole myth how
are you catching fish oh yeah I caught
most of monies as a birch poll I'd
rigged up a little thing that made me so
I could cast and I could cast long ways
out and it was just fun as fishing I've
ever done just cast yeah I've made with
like a spool that I had brought for my
fishing line or whatever and what did
you use for like the eyes for the wire a
snare wire was one of the things I
brought so it made like rigged up a
little fishing pole and it worked great
it was real similar to what they use in
Soviet like old Soviet reels so I had
been gave me the idea for making that
style of it real because they're just so
basic you know and and it takes a little
practice to use but anyway rigged it up
and work great I could cast way out
there
it took me a long time to catch my first
fish a few weeks but after I did I kind
of like dial them in and it was using
bait I made a lure like a little spinner
I made and that man and I caught a fish
but it snapped my line but the and then
I tried moose meat and they loved it so
I'll just be casting in on catching them
all on moose meat or like fish belly you
know you catch a fish and cut out a
strip that's tripping and they loved
that and it was mostly lake trout but
some of them were you know over 20
pounds and you got this homemade rod and
you're like really today and shaking
your hands out it's 20 pound lake trout
that's the same
with a homemade lure and a homemade wood
that's a different thing that's paracord
I was I was uh yeah just testing out
making like a fly line not a paracord
there and digital leader as well like
using the paracord and like braiding it
down that's not that that's not the
thing I used on the show that was just
experimenting now when you were using
the line what kind of lot did you bring
fishing yeah another item braided yeah
no you can only bring monofilament
barbless hook so it made everything but
that much more intense
yeah why why Berkeley no Canadian
regulations or something there was never
gonna be any release in that but but you
they allowed you to what pound tested
use 2002 limit yeah yeah and you got no
drag so you just feel yeah wow they're
trying to drag it out like a fly rod
will you let it slip away reel it in let
it pull away until it finally wears
itself out which you know stripping the
line in or you do you have sad my little
reel so I could like put my thumb on it
and on my spool and would like drag did
you deal with a finger yeah I made like
when it was cold I made this rabbit fur
glove that weird just the tip of my
fingers touching this 13 but they're all
big you know like they're all so you eat
him for a couple days yeah like from
between probably 8 and 27 pound did you
eat the fish guts at all did you eat the
stomachs and the head was the best part
like when you're out there you know
starving and you need fat it's like you
know a lot of times I would eat the fish
and kind of put the main meat part of it
away for later but you need the belly
the head like a soup with the head yeah
I made all my fish into soup and then I
would fry all my basic all your fish you
made industry yeah just to get all the
nutrients out of the do you find any
editable vegetables or anything lots of
berries like up north
so awesome as far as berries go although
my spot didn't really have many but I
found patches you know like well will
you find it very easy find bears yeah
yeah yeah did you find any root
vegetables or any like wow there's uh
there's not a lot of that up there
there's lichen so I boiled the reindeer
lichen no that's a no tastes like real
bland it's really kind of acidic it's
not great for eating but I would mix it
with my moose meat just to get carbs
like sometimes maybe that's where all
the caribou eat right yeah yeah that's
weird a weird that's weird but you can
turn into an animal you know just take a
pile of lichen and it turns into it's
weird stuff too right yeah so that was
you have no seasoning or anything right
right but man I gotta tell you I didn't
you you know you know elk do but man I
didn't miss it at all it was so good
from the first bite to the last man mmm
do you see some of it raw yeah the extra
boost job yet a knife a Leatherman yeah
yeah oh just a leather the leather
mister you you butchered the moose with
a leather yeah oh I think I've got the
moose finally at like noon and then I
think I was done cutting it up and
hauling it by like ten o'clock that
night and do you have a sharpening stone
or anything yeah it's a rock you know
it's just a regular fine laying around
you sure no it looks like it might work
well did it work yeah that's so crazy to
rely on a Leatherman that little tiny
ass yeah well you got only so many items
no and I wanted the wire cutters I
wanted the little saw for crafting stuff
you know so I've figured if my worst
problem is that I have a small knife to
cut up a big game I'll be pretty happy
was there anything that you wished you
brought that you didn't yeah I would
have taken probably a gill net instead
of my saw I took a saw and I almost
never used it yeah yeah yeah you thought
you in the user for trees or yeah I just
stopped for project just be a calorie
saver rather than using your axe but it
was kind of a risk I took and it ended
up not being so that was worthwhile
that's pretty good though
yeah yeah yeah yeah it was nice for
building I built like a 12-foot tall
cache where I stored all my moose
meetings it was night for it nice for
that
so what other objects did you bring you
brought a tarp you brought in line
fishing line you guys a fucking James
the best feral rod what is a Ferro rod
that's like--that's Parker you know you
scrape it and oh that's how you started
your fire yeah mmm fishing line and
hooks all barbed with how many hooks a
job 25 but yeah my last ones a bow and
you're allowed nine arrows only yeah did
you think about constructing arrows yeah
I thought and I was thinking uh by the
time I got the moose you know early
enough that I didn't really need to make
arrows but I was thinking if I want to
shoot more at squirrels I better make
some arrows trapping wire what is that
that's just just thin gauge wire like
money gauge wire and would use that for
five hours snare and rabbits hundreds of
snares out and then I built you know for
building my fishing poles mm-hmm and did
that in a sleeping bag yeah my bag
brought up fucking yeah sleeping bag 40
a nice point up rocks throw it in there
with okay yeah and then a multi-tool
crazy didn't bring a knife just a
multi-tool I guess that makes sense
though if I was looking at that list
like what would I take off for a knife
yeah it's gonna read that saw what would
you take if you didn't have the saw her
I would have taken a gill net I ended up
making a gill net out of the paracord
but I think that would have been useful
Wow
it's crazy only get ten things yeah puts
the pressure on oh my goodness it does
so once you shot the moose and you you
had all that meat and then what did you
do with your time after that I kept busy
I just always assumed somebody else was
gonna get something so I was like you
know I'd spent a lot of time right after
getting the mousse like preserving it
smoking it trying to store it where it
would be safe because everywhere you put
it something's getting it you hang it in
trees and the birds are pecking it you
know you everybody's going for it you
have a tarp that you could cover it with
well I only had the tarp for my shelter
and I didn't that would have been that I
was an item I also thought
no when I was gonna get something big it
would've been nice to have a tarp but
yeah yeah it was a lot of work
protecting my meat but then also just
continued fishing continued you know all
that kind of stuff after you got the
Wolverine out of the picture was there
any other I got the Wolverine I was so
happy I was like I just got to eat and
live and then like two days later I was
sitting there frying up some meat and
and I've never even been able to find on
the internet a good Wolverine sound but
another one another one came and I just
hear it out in the woods Anika
no it's like a witch in the wood and I
was like I was like just praying like I
think I made that up right yeah but sure
enough he started coming around but we
were only we have regulations right so
you can't kill you don't kill one
Wolverines those oh yeah then I was just
on defense mode trying to set up like
I'd like set up all these cans so that
when I walked through with the you know
did Clank and then I don't wait tempting
for sure oh you know just like that
survival it is like this isn't just
hunting yeah talk about intense hunting
when I hit the moose you know like like
unlike anything I've ever experienced oh
my gosh that was a good shot you knew
yeah but then you gotta wait you know
you gotta wait like an hour to go look
because you don't want to spook it it's
such a big animal how heavy were your
arrows that's the ID 180 grain broad
head so heavy I mean 125 grain
broadheads and 80 grain insert so pretty
heavy up front heavy FOC yeah yeah and
then like the chef's full-length shaft
like what do you yeah carbon would look
like shafts feathers yep with feathers
mm-hmm and yeah did the job it sunk all
the way in to the moose can't entirely
and didn't come out the other side
because it was a quartering towards me
shot oh wow sunk the feathers in the
back of the
arrow touched its back hip oh he must
have shot it perfect between the ribs
yeah just yeah it was a it was great but
it uh I only hit one lung so it was a
long you know of course I was tracking
it lost track of the blood there's like
a big ordeal tracking it worry about
something funny before you yeah yeah was
mostly fair found it hunt the beragon I
mean I was expecting a bear to show up
and never did but you never saw any baby
were there no my spot must not have had
bear like I was expecting one to come
for the kill maybe they hibernated you
know right around that time so I was
like right on the edge of when they
would go in yeah and yeah just got away
with that one or you know how actually
to be honest was kind of hoping one
would come because what she first got
the heart down of the heart yeah that
ring of fat around it yeah oh good and
how did you cook that just it's like
sticks or something and one of my items
with a frying pan oh that's right oh
that's nice man it was so good use the
fat as like oil yeah mmm the fat first
at first I rendered a bunch of fat into
like mmm mmm Wow you must have felt like
a fucking caveman caveman yeah yeah it
was interesting to get into that mindset
because you just have you know you're
just living you feel really connected to
everything you feel like out there
carving steaks with a leather man yeah
so crazy and you use the axe to chop up
the bones to make marrow
yeah just break open the bones with
rocks out on a rock like and then pick
out the marrow and that was creamy and
delicious so healthy for you too right
yeah it's exactly what you're craving
Wow so when you had that stashed in your
cache a must a lot of pressure must have
been relieved though right oh yeah I
felt like a just a demon lifted off my
back it's just you know the whole time
is like you're gonna starve you're gonna
start we're gonna start just like trying
to fight this thing off and then
man when you shot that and it it was
like three hours I tracked it and I had
lost its so I was lost it's blood trail
and I lost its foot trails because it
was like hard ground and I was just like
no I cannot lose this moose and then but
I was like well I hid it in the lung I'm
sure so I think it's gonna stay downhill
so I just followed the shoreline sure
enough I came up on it but it was like
sitting there alert in a lie and I was
just like I'm gonna duck down has like
debating like can I sneak in and try to
get another shot but no way and it's
like so I just waited it out and it was
a long three hours where I would just be
like sitting there and it would stand up
and you're just like no no no no then it
would fall down anyway yes they're like
really dragged it out but when it
finally died yeah walked over there and
I yeah talk about a weight lifted off
your shoulders people give you a hard
time for that from the way I got in with
some good internet hate but honestly
it's people
I can understand it like it sounds good
like why you go finish it off with an
arrow could run away of course they
could run away know that yeah you got to
let it be calm and just like go away how
close were you when you saw it standing
out how many 50 yards you really don't
want to send 50 yeah yeah all you're
gonna do is poke it and then it's gonna
know it's being attacked and get up and
run away right and I understand the
people that were mad just having Bo
hunted so fair enough yeah and also its
survivals yeah making risks yeah that's
a crazy situation man yeah anticipation
not that's even more crazy right like
you hit it but it's still alive and then
you got a you hoping yeah I've lost I
don't know if you've ever done that
where I've hit a deer you know you wait
45 minutes and then you go out there and
then you see it stand up in front of you
and run off hmm
and at that point it's almost impossible
to find because it's already bled out
mostly and and I've lost you yeah and it
can run for miles it's crazy yeah
they're I mean they're built for
survival me able to get away from wolves
it's amazing what they can do to yeah so
that was in my mind for sure do you have
the antlers unfortunately no maybe
somebody in Canada is listening to this
I was I was flying out on the airplane
the lady wouldn't let me bring him on
the plane because I'd had him like
improperly wrapped I guess and then my
flame was just about to leave from
Northwest Territories and just like I
just had to set it in front of the
airport super bummer couldn't I didn't
have any other locals number like hey
could you come grab this that would be
something you'd want your wall
absolutely no it was like a young moose
which great eating but it wasn't huge
but well the first one was a monster
yeah the first one was a monster and
what if I was having have you seen moose
like up close shot one oh you did yes
not a young one yeah but it aren't like
cool and it was like the young one that
I shot was like a four key it was like
900 pounds yeah that's about what I got
three points on it and uh but yeah
there's just such cool animals to see
they're so they're so big yeah so I was
with my friend Ben O'Brien and he shot
one that was huge
but it was walking across the road they
walked across this dirt road it looked
like a dynasty what I thought even look
real even the one I missed like I can't
even say I was upset because I was just
like you don't realize how big they are
no you're in their presence yeah yeah
absolutely I guess that's probably like
all animals that are enormous in Africa
right it's I mean you see them at the
zoo and they're not impressive for some
reason yeah they don't have they're like
wild energy in the forest like you know
where they are
yeah look at the map Oh caves let's go
check out those motherfuckers see
they're not as interested no it's not
like you'd turn a bend you know go
around a corner and you like see one
just out there living wild it's so
indescribable just seeing something you
maybe just stumble into and make any
kind of animal that's like in the wild
and you realize like this is how this
thing species has been existing for
hundreds of thousands of years just how
when we when we were doing that project
trying to get you know guys from to stop
drinking out in Siberia we had like a
little hunting cabin we were based at
and I woke up one morning and we
stupid dog that just barked at
everything and I just hear the Braga off
press squirrel psych got up and I didn't
get up I let it bark and then my buddy
got up like an hour later and went out
to brush his teeth and came running back
there's a bear out there so I went off
jumped up looked out and a bear had
killed a moose like less than a hundred
we could have watched the whole thing if
I would have just woke up right away but
it came kill the moose right next to our
cabin when we came out it's sauce and
took off running and we're like oh man
so we walked over there like she's a
whole warm moose still here so we like
cut it up Holly back dog hold it from
the back call it from the bear bear come
back oh yeah like three days later like
we were in their shelter and sure enough
that one dog just came running in and
hide hid under the bed out there barking
it's a we grab that SKS and go out there
and it felt like like have you ever seen
the ghost in the darkness yeah it
reminded me of because it's like all
this tall brush and you just hear like
you know the dogs barking over here and
so I'm like oh man the Bears over here
and then over here you hear up oh crap
this is over here you know like and then
all of a sudden like man I'm we're kind
of in this tall brush like better but
I'd like it was like well I got my
camera so I handed the gun to this dude
and he's just like I figured he knew
what he was doing a bad choice but I got
my camera he got the gun and then again
we're looking at where the dogs barking
and the bear like pops up right here and
stands up it's like and dude just took
off running with my camera I'd recently
had a knee surgeries like I wasn't
running out of there so I just like
stood there it does back in the bride
and then dude comes back like a full you
know almost a minute later I was just
like there's like my knees are shaking I
was like dude you got a gun don't run
and just as I said that it stood up
again and he's like dude you sound like
Vietnam so you guys want to be eating it
well we they were all thank you people
and they ate the heart but they don't
need oh they have like a whole ritual
when they shoot a bear
like that because they're so wormy up
there you can't eat them in like a
serious situation but what they would
lightly like cut the head off and put
the eyes under a rock because they
didn't want their like spirit to see
where where who got it so they like
enemies they put the other parts of it
in the river so that it floats down to
like a different village so that the
bear thinks those are the people but in
general because there's so so much
trichinosis and stuff they don't eat the
brown bear up there but although you can
if you boil the heck out of it yeah we
just cook it over 160 right yes I don't
know yeah yeah my father we got up
trichinosis how did he Steve Rinella oh
yeah you saw the whole crew got it and
they even got t-shirts isn't that mild
Ricky knows this crew is it as it did
they get rid of it I imagine it just
goes away but it's always in your body
so if somebody ate him some day they
gnosis Oh interesting
yeah but he said it felt like his
muscles like you could feel the little
the little parasite worms yeah your
muscle so it's everything is in pain
yeah and then eventually just goes away
yeah fucking worms just living in your
body
it's creepy man because when you I
haven't experienced this but I know that
some people who eat bear have cut open
the bear and seeing the worms literally
crawling underneath the skin oh yeah
yeah no you could see them even on the
bear that bear yeah yeah you'd see them
in there they're like yeah it's pretty
gnarly so you guys ate the heart only
that's it's the heart to me I'm a little
bit of a waste but yeah that's it I was
kind of doing When in Rome you know yeah
that's one of those things right like if
you insult them in tradition of things
they were doing so and you're out there
making beer barbecue
[Laughter]
that's how big was the pair there's a
brown bear big old brown bear I mean it
wasn't an old one it was probably uh
it's hard to say but it was a full-grown
foot and yeah somewhere I put a picture
of the hide but anyway here yeah he's a
big bear I don't I don't actually know
what I did with that video which is very
sad but no guys ate the moose you ate
the heart of the bear and how do they do
that they just slice that up yeah I just
sliced it up fried it up and then yeah
there's a lot of bear stories out there
you're constantly I can only imagine
constantly interacting with them when
you're always in the woods like that
well unhappy people the guy was talking
about losing his favorite hunting dog
yeah yeah that happens that the way they
do dogs over there they think you're
interesting because they have a
different dog for every type of animal
so if you got like a dog that's really
good at treating Birds and you got a dog
that's good of going after bears and you
got a good dog is good at sable you know
like you just keep raising dogs until
you get one that likes to go after what
you need it to go where are they getting
their dogs from it's just like this a
Venki breed of dog I don't know just
random looks like just their like either
white mutts
yeah mutt looking things are not very
big but they're not small is average
fire coyote sized dogs and they uh yeah
usually white or red or spotted and what
do they feed them just mush like this
like oat mush stuff they buy in the
Ville it's not very good food but then
the the dogs like and try to fend for
themselves and stuff get your minds and
things it's like a they like not an
enviable all the dogs seem pretty happy
but they also like you know you'll go
out and super cold weather and this dog
will have melted a big hole in the snow
and it gets snowed on top of it and
you're like pops up yeah they just sleep
outside
they're tough dogs yeah yeah yeah and
they're eating just mush yeah they just
eating mush and like certain scraps and
stuff but yeah I'm not an enviable diet
they have they're usually kind of thin
but yeah I don't know any better they
like it they seem happy running around
free like that incredible and yeah yeah
super cool it's just so what a strength
what is this
patio that's what he's such a cool guy
but that's him in his reindeer if I saw
like if I didn't know any better I saw a
dude with a reindeer with a saddle my
get the fuck can't just ride the
reindeer round reindeers not that big no
think about a 200-pound reindeer yeah
they're not but they're pretty strong
they're like they'll pull you in like
but it is border like a guy like me or
whatever it's starting to get borderline
but how much do you weigh like 175 and
so if you're on a 200 pound it's got to
get a stronger one yeah and there's they
do it the strongest ones will carry well
over 200 pound person how big are the
big ones bingo I don't know the weight
but like a 300 pound no I don't think
caribou that really bad yeah yeah not
the domestic ones are probably a little
smaller I don't think they get that
heavy maybe 250 but the but they're
strong man you like to get on like
there's be some cool times where you're
just out in the middle of this field and
Siberia you know you know those swamps
have that like tough to grass that's
like walk on and then you know you
carrying your reindeer long you know
he's like in tow maybe and then you get
to this big flowing river with ice and
everything and jump on your reindeer and
just hope he can make it through without
stumbling and you're like on the back of
this reindeer like feels life or death
if you following this river you know and
you just hang on to him and trust that
he won't stumble you know and make it
across this river pull up on the other
shore and you're just like whoa do you
ever have dreams of that life like after
you've done it do you ever it's always
present with me you know like I always
think about it like I was saying it's
like it's interesting to live in a
modern world and see the things that
pull my suck my time and how in some way
it's a very unsatisfying you know the
Internet the social media thing but it's
so engrossing and I miss it and then and
those are the reasons why like always
think man how could you how could you
get this you know a little more in our
modern society or how you know that's
was like the initial catalyst for why I
thought about I wonder if something like
that would be able to be revived you
know now after you've had all the
wild experiences do you long for more
deed is it something like will you go
live a normal life for a while you start
getting the itch
yeah definitely it's like again it's
like that thing where it's like if it
was my friends and family living that
life I would just choose it but it
because it's not like it's hard to like
feel fully committed into it because you
know you got your kids and all your wife
and they're all over there and none of
your family can see them you know it's a
such a different and separate life that
said it I do know that it's very
satisfying you know on a deep level you
know it's kind of interesting too but
yeah I try to incorporate as many
lessons as I can you know and like
anything that keeps you connected to you
know how we were designed to be just are
you just connected to the land to nature
I love all those things so what do you
do now for a living well we're gonna I
but I generally do for a living as
renovate crappy houses and then flip a
random out usually but uh I'm gonna
start doing trying to do some survival
schools up you know in Idaho and the
wilderness oh okay out there and then so
maybe it connects it to my friend Dan
Dodie yeah and so you you see stuff like
that but yeah I did a class in Ontario
this winter you know tots and folks just
general survival skills and stuff and
then you do that what do you how does
that set up do you give a yeah the the
classes we're gonna have in July we'll
just ride horses up into the wilderness
and Idaho and spend a week up there and
a lot of it is teaching you know there's
definitely hard skills all the hard
skills there's also a lot of just a
mental what's the mental framework that
you need to have to survive you know in
and to be resilient and stuff like that
and that's a whole fascinating topic in
and of itself you know like you get it
you dig deep when you're out by yourself
you it's amazing how deep your thoughts
go you know now when you say mental
feels like what do you teach people in
terms of mental skills like how can you
know well like if someone was gonna be
prepared wanted to prepare to go there's
a few things that would be really
helpful one and you need to practice
gratitude right it's like just being
thankful for what you have even in a
rough situation is key you know and
that's that can come from having like
perspective you know like reading if you
read the Gulag Archipelago
it makes it hard to complain about your
particular situation and so having like
perspective like that I think is good so
I for me it was good knowing my like
family history you know they're like
Assyrians who got you know in the sea
Armenian Genocide kind of got wiped out
and so there's have brutal stories of
what happened to him it's like puts all
my suffering in perspective and I see
that the people who lived through that
came out joyful people somehow and you
know and so resilient resilient people
nada
yeah not only where did they live but
they went on to have a family that was
like my aunts and uncles who were like
really happy beautiful you know people
and how do they get that resilience is
something that I've thought a lot about
and in you know gratitude is a big deal
I think you know having experienced that
puts perspective on on time like knowing
that your relationships are strong so
like having gone to Russia a bunch you
spend a year over there you know you the
first time you're like oh man I miss
everybody but then you realize when you
come back they're right there they still
love you know so having strong
relationships is very important you
don't want to have a lot of skeletons in
your closet you know like if you get out
there and you're alone in some survival
situation in college yeah it's amazing
when you think of people that had long
forgot about you know like and like
people like I should call that guy and
make it right with that guy but I think
if if you had a lot of like issues that
you had never dealt through and you
guarantee you they're gonna come up out
there you know stuff that you forgot
about and so that's like combing through
and making sure you're just mentally
everything's in order you know
kind of knowing why you're doing what
you're doing you know like yeah so
that's yeah there's a lot there that you
can kind of unpack so when you have this
survival school that you're teaching do
you have a specific curriculum do you
write out know basically I've thought
like what is it that I've learned over
the years that's allowed me to do you
know to be successful or to do to thrive
in some of those situations and how can
I impart that you know and that's mainly
I'm just trying to show people and what
I've learned and what's practical in the
woods because it's easy to get a lot of
skills that you're not really gonna use
or whatever but I think if you know what
you know I've experienced what people in
the wilderness really do to live and
like having those skills hopefully being
able to impart the you know mental and
also physical skills to thrive I don't
know I just think that's yeah and some
of its experience so somebody just going
out in the woods a lot of people haven't
spent a week in the woods just going out
there and seeing what it's all like like
what it's like to scout out a new place
and be like okay where I'm gonna go
build my shelter how I'm gonna get food
you know like all that stuff when you
have those people come out for a
survival school what do they bring with
them and what do you well it depends
like I mean I haven't done a lot of
these this is one of my first ones in
Idaho are gonna be in July the one I did
in Ontario we basically told him to
bring act like they were on that show
you know bring ten items and we'll make
the best of it you know and then and so
that's and how many people are there I'm
work up there think it was six and in
Idaho is if it's still you know if
kovetz still a thing and there's a limit
of ten people then I guess it'll bring
eight and it'll be me and my brother who
and we'll teach them what we know how do
you vet those people like how do you
make sure they're not completely out of
their fucking mind
learn a whole new set of survival skills
was a real psychosocial yeah I'd be a
way they'd want to express themselves
the bunch of people trying to survive
hopefully we can keep that in check yeah
do you ask about their background do you
do a background check on them right not
really
no issues let it rise but a ride see
once put themselves in that situation
it's all right it'll be cool ah have
don't throw a lot of people so I think
it's okay yeah in general what is the
type of people that want to learn this
kind of stuff oh I think it can be broad
it's like it's not too extreme it's not
like I'm looking for people that like
you don't have to be super hardcore it's
it's people that want to have a new
experience broaden their horizon it's
kind of like choose your own adventure
you don't have to go out there and
starve for a week like yeah just come
out I'll be there with you to teach you
things and we'll you know make the best
of the week and see what we can learn
and I'd know whoever could be anybody
do you have a longing for personal
adventure though dude this is a thing
like outside of just teaching this yeah
oh yeah like one of the things I want to
do now I feel like I got a little more
freedom because I got is uh just spend
more time in the mountains you know I
love it it speaks to me so I'm gonna try
to do that now want to also stay
connected with the Evenki over there we
know when the borders open back up I
want to go back with my family we've
tried you know restoring some reindeer
herds to people who have lost their
reindeer and want to go over and kind of
check on that project see how they're
progressing see if they're if they are
you know and like it's like that type of
thing if I see that people are making
progress and like building their herd
back or making some kind of progress
then I try to support them more and like
you know feed into that so there's
things that I want to remain connected
to we'll see I'm also really interested
in like I like all those like restoring
like when they people
I hear about restoring ELQ to the out
east more restoring buffalo herds all
that kind of stuff to me is pretty
exciting so I'll just see ya we'll do
that I really appreciate you being here
you've lived a really fascinating life
that's why I appreciate you having me
out it's cool to connect with you and be
able to do this yeah I'm on up to I know
some time when you're bored or out to
Virginia thanks brother I appreciate you
man yeah being here it's been good bye
buddy
[Music]